!Butterfly Basics

This article outlines how to use the Butterfly wiki syntax. It's 
pretty similar to most other wiki syntaxes (like [http://wikipedia.org/|MediaWiki]), 
but tries to improve on it whenever I felt like it.

!!Headers
To make a header, start a line with an exclamation point (==!==).

 !!!I am an <h3> tag!

produces

!!!I am an <h3> tag!

!!Paragraphs
Two successive line breaks is a paragraph. Paragraphs are also created 
by single line breaks after closing certain scopes (like, e.g. a 
header).

{{{[!Hello

world]}}}

produces

Hello

world

!!Text
Basic textual manipulation.

!!!Bold
Bold text is surrounded by two successive underscores (==[!__]==).

 [!__this text will be bold__, but this text will not.]

produces

__this text will be bold__, but this text will not.

!!!Italics
Italic text is surrounded by two successive apostrophes (==[!'']==).

 [!''this text will be italicized'', but this text will not.]

produces

''this text will be bold'', but this text will not.

!!!Teletype
Teletype text is surrounded by two successive equals signs (==[!==]==).

 [!==this text will be teletype==, but this text will not.]

produces

==this text will be teletype==, but this text will not.

!!!Underline
Underlined text is surrounded by two successive dashes (==[!--]==).

 [!--this text will be underlined--, but this text will not.]

produces

--this text will be underlined--, but this text will not.

!!!Strike-through
Strike-through text is surrounded by three successive dashes (==[!---]==).

 [!---this text will be strike-through---, but this text will not.]

produces

---this text will be strike-through---, but this text will not.

!!!Small
Smaller text starts with ==[!(-]== and ends with ==[!-)]==.

 [!(-this text will be (-even smaller-)-), but this text will not.]

produces

(-this text will be (-even smaller-)-), but this text will not.

!!!Big
Bigger text starts with ==[!(+]== and ends with ==[!+)]==.

 [!(+this text will be (+even bigger+)+), but this text will not.]

produces

(+this text will be (+even bigger+)+), but this text will not.

!!Links
Links are an important part of wikis. There are four different ways 
to represent links in Butterfly:

#A wiki link with default text
#*==[![foo]]]== -> [foo]
#A wiki link with alternate text
#*==[![foo|bar]]]== -> [foo|bar]
#An external link with default text
#*==[![http://example.com/]]]== -> [http://example.com/]
#An external link with alternate text
#*==[![http://example.com/|external link]]]== -> [http://example.com/|external link]

!!Images
Images are constructed similarly to links. The format is:
 [![image:{url}|{width|height|alt}=value]]]

For example,

 [![image:http://example.com/|width=200|height=100|alt=This is my image lol]]]

produces

[image:http://example.com/|width=200|height=100|alt=This is my image lol]

!!Lists
Lists are also important. They should be overused at all times.

!!!Bullet Lists
{{{[!*List 1
*List 2
**Sub list 2-1
**Sub list 2-2
**#Sub list 2-2-1
**#Sub list 2-2-2
**Sub list 2-3
*List 3
*#Sub list 3-1
*#Sub list 3-2
*List 4]}}}

produces

*List 1
*List 2
**Sub list 2-1
**Sub list 2-2
**#Sub list 2-2-1
**#Sub list 2-2-2
**Sub list 2-3
*List 3
*#Sub list 3-1
*#Sub list 3-2
*List 4

!!!Definition Lists
Start a line with a semicolon for terms, start a line with a 
colon for definitions.

{{{[!;Term
:Definition
;Elephant
:Grey, long trunk, enormous in stature]}}}

produces

;Term
:Definition
;Elephant
:Grey, long trunk, enormous in stature

!!Preformatted
Preformatted text can be done in two different ways: indenting the 
first character of a line or wrapping it in ==[!{{{ }}}]== (three 
curly braces).

 This is indented by a space and will be terminated by a line break.

{{{[!{{{Wrapped in curly
braces. Notice
how line
__breaks
and
text styles
are__
preserved}}}]}}}

produces

{{{Wrapped in curly
braces. Notice
how line
__breaks
and
text styles
are__
preserved}}}

!!Blockquote
Blockquotes start with two successive less than signs (==<<==) and 
end with two successive greater than signs (==>>==). The opening less 
than signs must start at the beginning of a line.

{{{[!<<This is a blockquote.

They can be very long, if you wish.

*Here is a list item.

That's all for now.>>]}}}

produces

<<This is a blockquote.

They can be very long, if you wish.

*Here is a list item.

That's all for now.>>

!!Tables
Everybody loves tables! Tables are pretty easy. It's easier to show than 
explain.

{{{[!|!Foo|!Bar|!Baz|
|Tables|are|fun!|
|{table rows
can span|multiple
lines}|
|this row| only has two columns|
]}}}

produces

|!Foo|!Bar|!Baz|
|Tables|are|fun!|
|{table rows 
can span|multiple|
lines}|
|this row|only has two columns|

!!Escaping
Sometimes you want to escape text that has meaning to the wiki language. 
You can accomplish this by enclosing it in 
==__[![!]__==''{your text and stuff}]''==__]__==.

 [![!__this__ should ''not'' be [wikized]]]]]

produces

[!__this__ should ''not'' be [wikized]]]

Notice that preceding a close square bracket with another close square bracket 
outputs a literal close square bracket.